basic_samples/DataViews/Java/README.md, before:

# Using the OCS Dataview Service in Java

**Version:** 0.1.3

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_apis/build/status/product-readiness/OCS/DataViews_Java?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build?definitionId=884&branchName=master)

The sample code in this demonstrates how to invoke Data View REST APIs via the sample Java client [library](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples/tree/master/library_samples/Java). The sample demonstrates how to establish a connection to SDS, obtain an authorization token, create an SdsType and SdsStream with data (if needed), create a data view, update it, retrieve it, and retrieve data from it in different ways. At the end of the sample, everything that was created is deleted.

## Summary of steps to run the Java demo

Using Eclipse or any IDE:

1. Clone a local copy of the GitHub repository.
1. Install Maven.
1. \*Install the ocs_sample_library_preview to your local Maven repo using run mvn install pom.xml from `\library_samples\Java\`
1. If you are using Eclipse, select `File` > `Import` > `Maven`> `Existing maven project` and then select the local copy.
1. Replace the configuration strings in `config.properties`

Using a command line:

1. Clone a local copy of the GitHub repository.
1. Download `apache-maven-x.x.x.zip` from [http://maven.apache.org](http://maven.apache.org) and extract it.
1. Setting environment variables.
   1. For Java JDK  
      Variable name - `JAVA_HOME`  
      Variable value - location to the Java JDK in User variables.  
      and, also add JDK\bin path to the Path variable in System variables.
   1. For Maven  
      Variable name - `MAVEN_HOME`  
      Variable value - location to the extracted folder for the  
      maven `~\apache-maven-x.x.x` in User variables.  
      and, also add `~\apache-maven-x.x.x\bin` path to the Path variable in System variables.
1. \*Install the ocs_sample_library_preview to your local Maven repo using `run mvn install pom.xml` from `\library_samples\Java\`
1. Building and running the project.
   1. `cd` to your project location.
   1. run `mvn package exec:java` on cmd.

\*Currently this project is not hosted on the central Maven repo and must be compiled and installed locally.

---

Tested against Maven 3.6.3 and Java Runtime Environment 11.

For the general steps or switch languages see the Task [ReadMe](../)  
For the main OCS page [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS)  
For the main samples page on master [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples)

Commit message:

Gitignore config in DataViews_Java (#93)

basic_samples/DataViews/Java/README.md, after:

# Using OCS Data Views in Java

**Version:** 1.0.0

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_apis/build/status/product-readiness/OCS/DataViews_Java?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build?definitionId=884&branchName=master)

The sample code in this demonstrates how to invoke Data View REST APIs via the sample Java client [library](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples/tree/master/library_samples/Java). The sample demonstrates how to establish a connection to SDS, obtain an authorization token, create an SdsType and SdsStream with data (if needed), create a data view, update it, retrieve it, and retrieve data from it in different ways. At the end of the sample, everything that was created is deleted.

## Summary of steps to run the Java demo

Using Eclipse or any IDE:

1. Clone a local copy of the GitHub repository.
1. Install Maven.
1. \*Install the ocs_sample_library_preview to your local Maven repo using run mvn install pom.xml from `\library_samples\Java\`
1. If you are using Eclipse, select `File` > `Import` > `Maven`> `Existing maven project` and then select the local copy.
1. The sample is configured using the file [config.placeholder.properties](config.placeholder.properties). Before editing, rename this file to `config.properties`. This repository's `.gitignore` rules should prevent the file from ever being checked in to any fork or branch, to ensure credentials are not compromised.
1. Replace the configuration strings in `config.properties`

Using a command line:

1. Clone a local copy of the GitHub repository.
1. Download `apache-maven-x.x.x.zip` from [http://maven.apache.org](http://maven.apache.org) and extract it.
1. Setting environment variables.
   1. For Java JDK  
      Variable name - `JAVA_HOME`  
      Variable value - location to the Java JDK in User variables.  
      and, also add JDK\bin path to the Path variable in System variables.
   1. For Maven  
      Variable name - `MAVEN_HOME`  
      Variable value - location to the extracted folder for the  
      maven `~\apache-maven-x.x.x` in User variables.  
      and, also add `~\apache-maven-x.x.x\bin` path to the Path variable in System variables.
1. \*Install the ocs_sample_library_preview to your local Maven repo using `run mvn install pom.xml` from `\library_samples\Java\`
1. Building and running the project.
   1. `cd` to your project location.
   1. run `mvn package exec:java` on cmd.

\*Currently this project is not hosted on the central Maven repo and must be compiled and installed locally.

---

Tested against Maven 3.6.3 and Java Runtime Environment 11.

For the general steps or switch languages see the Task [ReadMe](../)  
For the main OCS page [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS)  
For the main samples page on master [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples)
