basic_samples/DataViews/README.md, before:

# OCS Data Views Samples

The sample code in the folders below demonstrate how to invoke Data Views REST APIs via the sample client libraries.
The steps performed in the examples are similar and follow this general flow as shown on [Data View Docs](https://ocs-docs.osisoft.com/Documentation/DataViews/Quick_Start_Define_a_Data_View.html):

0. Authenticating into OCS  
0.5 Creating Types, Streams, and Data
1. Create a data view
1. Retrieve that data view
1. Add a query for data items
1. See the items found by the query
1. See the fields available to include in the data view
1. Include some of the available fields
1. Section the data view
1. Include the sectioner field set
1. Distinguish the data items
1. Consolidating fields
1. Delete Everything

Note: Currently the JAVA data view library sample does not follow this pattern and doesn't work

| Languages                            | Test Status                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <a href="Java/dataviewjava">Java</a> | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_apis/build/status/product-readiness/OCS/DataViews_Java?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/latest?definitionId=884&branchName=master)   |
| <a href="Python3/">Python</a>        | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_apis/build/status/product-readiness/OCS/DataViews_Python?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/latest?definitionId=885&branchName=master) |

For the main OCS page [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS)  
For the main samples page on master [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples)

Commit message:

Updates to Python DataViews (#49)
* Updates

* more updates for closer compatibility

* Update setup.py

* Updates to fix sample

* Update casing

Co-authored-by: Doug Broad <dbroad@osisoft.com>

basic_samples/DataViews/README.md, after:

# OCS Data Views Samples

The sample code in the folders below demonstrate how to invoke Data Views REST APIs via the sample client libraries.
The steps performed in the examples are similar and follow this general flow as shown on [Data View Docs](https://ocs-docs.osisoft.com/Documentation/DataViews/Quick_Start_Define_a_Data_View.html):


1. Authenticate against OCS  
2. Creating types, streams, and data
3. Create a data view
4. Retrieve the data view
5. Add a query for data items
6. View items found by the query
7. View fields available to include in the data view
8. Include some of the available fields
9. Group the data view
10. Identify data items
11. Consolidate data fields
12. Delete sample objects from OCS

Note: Currently the JAVA data view library sample does not follow this pattern and doesn't work

| Languages                            | Test Status                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <a href="Java/dataviewjava">Java</a> | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_apis/build/status/product-readiness/OCS/DataViews_Java?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/latest?definitionId=884&branchName=master)   |
| <a href="Python3/">Python</a>        | [![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_apis/build/status/product-readiness/OCS/DataViews_Python?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build/latest?definitionId=885&branchName=master) |

For the main OCS page [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS)  
For the main samples page on master [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples)
