basic_samples/OmfIngress/DotNet/README.md, before:

# OMF Ingress .NET Samples

**Version:** 1.1.2

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_apis/build/status/product-readiness/OCS/OMF_Ing_DotNet?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build?definitionId=886&branchName=master)

## Scope of Sample

This sample is intended to show how to build out the OMF Ingress connection in OCS programmatically using the DotNet NuGet library. The starting point of this sample assumes your OMF Ingress is not configured. It does show sending OMF data, but that is to show that the programmatic OMF configuration works. A typical OMF app would assume that the OMF ingress is already configured (as this is a one time configuration action). To learn about OMF application development and see samples of typcial OMF applications please go to our [OMF Repository](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OMF).

## Building a Client with the Ingress Client Libraries

The sample described in this section makes use of the OSIsoft Ingress Client Libraries. When working in .NET, it is recommended that you use these libraries. The libraries are available as NuGet packages. The packages used are:

- OSIsoft.Omf
- OSIsoft.OmfIngress
- OSIsoft.Identity.AuthenticationHandler

The libraries offer a framework of classes that make client development easier.

## Configure constants for connecting and authentication

The OMF Ingress Service is secured by obtaining tokens from the Identity Server. Such clients provide a client application identifier and an associated secret (or key) that are authenticated against the server. The sample includes an appsettings.json configuration file to hold configuration strings, including the authentication strings. You must replace the placeholders with the authentication-related values you received from OSIsoft. The application requires two Client Credential Clients, one to manage OMF Ingress connections and one to send data from a mock device. For information on how to obtain these client IDs and secrets, see the [Client Credential Client Documentation](https://ocs-docs.osisoft.com/Documentation/Identity/Identity_ClientCredentialClient.html).

```json
{
  "TenantId": "REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_TENANT_ID",
  "NamespaceId": "REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_NAMESPACE_ID",
  "Address": "https://dat-b.osisoft.com", //This is the base address, NOT the OMF endpoint.
  "ClientId": "REPLACE_WITH_CLIENT_IDENTIFIER", //This is the client to connect to the OMF Ingress Services.
  "ClientSecret": "REPLACE_WITH_CLIENT_SECRET",
  "DeviceClientId": "REPLACE_WITH_DEVICE_CLIENT_ID", //This is the client that will be used to send OMF data. Make sure a connection hasn't been made for this client yet.
  "DeviceClientSecret": "REPLACE_WITH_DEVICE_CLIENT_SECRET",
  "ConnectionName": "REPLACE_WITH_DESIRED_CONNECTION_NAME",
  "StreamId": "REPLACE_WITH_DESIRED_STREAM_ID"
}
```

The authentication values are provided to the `OSIsoft.Identity.AuthenticationHandler`. The AuthenticationHandler is a DelegatingHandler that is attached to an HttpClient pipeline.

Please note that while running the samples, you might get the following error:

`The specified client is already mapped to a different topic in the given namespace.`

If you get this error, it means that your DeviceClientId is already mapped to a topic in the same namespace. In that case, either create a new client and update the credentials for DeviceClientId and DeviceClientSecret, or specify a different namespace.

## Other Configuration

The aforementioned appsettings.json file has placeholders for the names of the connection, as well as a client Id to map a device to the topic. You must fill in those values as well.

## Set up OmfIngressService

The example works through one interface:

- IOmfIngressService for for configuring OMF Connections and sending OMF Messages

The following code block illustrates how to configure the OmfIngressService to use throughout the sample:

```C#
AuthenticationHandler authenticationHandler = new AuthenticationHandler(address, clientId, clientSecret);

OmfIngressService baseOmfIngressService = new OmfIngressService(new Uri(address), null, HttpCompressionMethod.None, authenticationHandler);
IOmfIngressService omfIngressService = baseOmfIngressService.GetOmfIngressService(tenantId, namespaceId);
```

Note that the instance of the IOmfIngressService is scoped to a tenant and namespace. If you wish to work in a different tenant or namespace, you would need another instance scoped to that tenant and namespace.

## OMF Connections

An OMF Connection is made up of three components: one or more Clients, a Topic, and a Subscription. Data is sent to a Topic via a Client, where the data is buffered and made available for the Subscription. The Subscription relays data from the Topic to the Sequential Data Store in the namespace that the Subscription resides in. The OmfIngressClient in this example creates a connection using an existing clientId, and creating a Topic and Subscription as detailed below.

## Clients

Devices sending OMF messages each need a clientId and clientSecret. The clientId is used route messages to the proper topic(s). ClientIds may be mapped to at most one topic per namespace. For more details on Clients see the [Client Credential Client Documentation](https://ocs-docs.osisoft.com/Documentation/Identity/Identity_ClientCredentialClient.html).

## Topics

A Topic is used to aggregate data received from clients and make it available for consumption via a Subscription. A topic must contain at least one client Id. Client Ids may be added to or removed from an existing topic. First, we create the Topic locally by instantiating a new Topic object:

```C#
Topic topic = new Topic()
{
    Name = "REPLACE_WITH_TOPIC_NAME",
    Description = "This is a sample Topic",
    ClientIds = new List<string>() { mappedClientId }
};
```

Then use the Ingress client to create the Topic in OCS:

```C#
Topic createdTopic = await omfIngressService.CreateTopicAsync(topic);
```

## Subscriptions

A Subscription is used to consume data from a Topic and relay it to the Sequential Data Store. First, we create the Subscription locally by instantiating a new Subscription object:

```C#
Subscription subscription = new Subscription()
{
    Name = "REPLACE_WITH_SUBSCRIPTION_NAME",
    Description = "This is a sample OCS Data Store Subscription",
    TopicId = createdTopic.Id,
    TopicTenantId = "REPLACE_WITH_TOPIC_TENANT_ID",
    TopicNamespaceId = "REPLACE_WITH_TOPIC_NAMESPACE_ID"
};
```

Then use the Ingress client to create the Subscription in OCS:

```C#
Subscription createdSubscription = await omfIngressService.CreateSubscriptionAsync(subscription);
```

## Send OMF Messages

OMF messages sent to OCS are translated into objects native to the Sequential Data Store. In this example, we send an OMF Type message which creates an SDS type in the data store, an OMF Container message which creates an SDS stream, and then send OMF Data messages, which use the containerId in the message body to route the data to the SDS stream. Refer to the data store documentation for how to view the types/streams/data in SDS. For each type of message, we first construct the message body using the OMF library:

```C#
OmfTypeMessage typeMessage = OmfMessageCreator.CreateTypeMessage(typeof(DataPointType));

OmfContainerMessage containerMessage = OmfMessageCreator.CreateContainerMessage(streamId, typeof(DataPointType));

DataPointType dataPoint = new DataPointType() { Timestamp = DateTime.UtcNow, Value = rand.NextDouble() };
OmfDataMessage dataMessage = OmfMessageCreator.CreateDataMessage(streamId, dataPoint);
```

Then the devices uses its own ingress client, which uses the device clientId and clientSecret to authenticate the requests. The device clientId is used to route the message to the Topic that the clientId is mapped to. Note that the message must be serialized before being sent.

```C#
var serializedMessage = OmfMessageSerializer.Serialize(omfMessage);
await deviceOmfIngressService.SendOMFMessageAsync(serializedMessage);
```

## Cleanup: Deleting Topics and Subscriptions

In order to prevent unused resources from being left behind, this sample performs some cleanup before exiting.

Deleting Containers and Types can be achieved by constructing the same OMF messages, but instead specifying the Delete action:

```C#
OmfTypeMessage typeMessage = OmfMessageCreator.CreateTypeMessage(typeof(DataPointType));
typeMessage.ActionType = ActionType.Delete;

OmfContainerMessage containerMessage = OmfMessageCreator.CreateContainerMessage(streamId, typeof(DataPointType));
containerMessage.ActionType = ActionType.Delete;
```

Then serialize the message and send as shown in the prior section.

Deleting Subscriptions and Topics can be achieved using the Ingress client and passing the corresponding object Ids:

```C#
await omfIngressService.DeleteSubscriptionAsync(createdSubscription.Id);
await omfIngressService.DeleteTopicAsync(createdTopic.Id);
```

## Steps to run this sample

Replace the placeholders in the [appsettings](appsettings.json) file with your TenantId, NamespaceId, ClientId, ClientSecret, DeviceClientId, DeviceClientSecret, ConnectionName and the StreamId.

### Requirements

- .NET Core 2.1 or later
- Reliable internet connection

### Using Visual Studio

- Load the .csproj
- Rebuild project
- Run it

### Command Line

- Make sure you have the install location of dotnet added to your path
- Run the following command from the location of this project:

```shell
dotnet restore
dotnet run
```

- To run the tests, first make sure to change the current folder to the folder with OmfIngressClientLibrariesTests.csproj

```shell
dotnet restore
dotnet test
```

---

For the main OCS page [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS)  
For the main samples page on master [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples)

Commit message:

Gitignore config in OmfIngress_DotNet (#95)

basic_samples/OmfIngress/DotNet/README.md, after:

# OMF Ingress .NET Samples

**Version:** 1.1.2

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_apis/build/status/product-readiness/OCS/OMF_Ing_DotNet?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_build?definitionId=886&branchName=master)

## Scope of Sample

This sample is intended to show how to build out the OMF Ingress connection in OCS programmatically using the DotNet NuGet library. The starting point of this sample assumes your OMF Ingress is not configured. It does show sending OMF data, but that is to show that the programmatic OMF configuration works. A typical OMF app would assume that the OMF ingress is already configured (as this is a one time configuration action). To learn about OMF application development and see samples of typcial OMF applications please go to our [OMF Repository](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OMF).

## Building a Client with the Ingress Client Libraries

The sample described in this section makes use of the OSIsoft Ingress Client Libraries. When working in .NET, it is recommended that you use these libraries. The libraries are available as NuGet packages. The packages used are:

- OSIsoft.Omf
- OSIsoft.OmfIngress
- OSIsoft.Identity.AuthenticationHandler

The libraries offer a framework of classes that make client development easier.

## Configure constants for connecting and authentication

The sample is configured using the file [appsettings.placeholder.json](OmfIngressClientLibraries\appsettings.placeholder.json). Before editing, rename this file to `appsettings.json`. This repository's `.gitignore` rules should prevent the file from ever being checked in to any fork or branch, to ensure credentials are not compromised.

The OMF Ingress Service is secured by obtaining tokens from the Identity Server. Such clients provide a client application identifier and an associated secret (or key) that are authenticated against the server. The sample includes an `appsettings.json` configuration file to hold configuration strings, including the authentication strings. You must replace the placeholders with the authentication-related values you received from OSIsoft. The application requires two Client Credential Clients, one to manage OMF Ingress connections and one to send data from a mock device. For information on how to obtain these client IDs and secrets, see the [Client Credential Client Documentation](https://ocs-docs.osisoft.com/Documentation/Identity/Identity_ClientCredentialClient.html).

```json
{
  "TenantId": "REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_TENANT_ID",
  "NamespaceId": "REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_NAMESPACE_ID",
  "Address": "https://dat-b.osisoft.com", //This is the base address, NOT the OMF endpoint.
  "ClientId": "REPLACE_WITH_CLIENT_IDENTIFIER", //This is the client to connect to the OMF Ingress Services.
  "ClientSecret": "REPLACE_WITH_CLIENT_SECRET",
  "DeviceClientId": "REPLACE_WITH_DEVICE_CLIENT_ID", //This is the client that will be used to send OMF data. Make sure a connection hasn't been made for this client yet.
  "DeviceClientSecret": "REPLACE_WITH_DEVICE_CLIENT_SECRET",
  "ConnectionName": "REPLACE_WITH_DESIRED_CONNECTION_NAME",
  "StreamId": "REPLACE_WITH_DESIRED_STREAM_ID"
}
```

The authentication values are provided to the `OSIsoft.Identity.AuthenticationHandler`. The AuthenticationHandler is a DelegatingHandler that is attached to an HttpClient pipeline.

Please note that while running the samples, you might get the following error:

`The specified client is already mapped to a different topic in the given namespace.`

If you get this error, it means that your DeviceClientId is already mapped to a topic in the same namespace. In that case, either create a new client and update the credentials for DeviceClientId and DeviceClientSecret, or specify a different namespace.

## Other Configuration

The aforementioned `appsettings.json` file has placeholders for the names of the connection, as well as a client Id to map a device to the topic. You must fill in those values as well.

## Set up OmfIngressService

The example works through one interface:

- IOmfIngressService for for configuring OMF Connections and sending OMF Messages

The following code block illustrates how to configure the OmfIngressService to use throughout the sample:

```C#
AuthenticationHandler authenticationHandler = new AuthenticationHandler(address, clientId, clientSecret);

OmfIngressService baseOmfIngressService = new OmfIngressService(new Uri(address), null, HttpCompressionMethod.None, authenticationHandler);
IOmfIngressService omfIngressService = baseOmfIngressService.GetOmfIngressService(tenantId, namespaceId);
```

Note that the instance of the IOmfIngressService is scoped to a tenant and namespace. If you wish to work in a different tenant or namespace, you would need another instance scoped to that tenant and namespace.

## OMF Connections

An OMF Connection is made up of three components: one or more Clients, a Topic, and a Subscription. Data is sent to a Topic via a Client, where the data is buffered and made available for the Subscription. The Subscription relays data from the Topic to the Sequential Data Store in the namespace that the Subscription resides in. The OmfIngressClient in this example creates a connection using an existing clientId, and creating a Topic and Subscription as detailed below.

## Clients

Devices sending OMF messages each need a clientId and clientSecret. The clientId is used route messages to the proper topic(s). ClientIds may be mapped to at most one topic per namespace. For more details on Clients see the [Client Credential Client Documentation](https://ocs-docs.osisoft.com/Documentation/Identity/Identity_ClientCredentialClient.html).

## Topics

A Topic is used to aggregate data received from clients and make it available for consumption via a Subscription. A topic must contain at least one client Id. Client Ids may be added to or removed from an existing topic. First, we create the Topic locally by instantiating a new Topic object:

```C#
Topic topic = new Topic()
{
    Name = "REPLACE_WITH_TOPIC_NAME",
    Description = "This is a sample Topic",
    ClientIds = new List<string>() { mappedClientId }
};
```

Then use the Ingress client to create the Topic in OCS:

```C#
Topic createdTopic = await omfIngressService.CreateTopicAsync(topic);
```

## Subscriptions

A Subscription is used to consume data from a Topic and relay it to the Sequential Data Store. First, we create the Subscription locally by instantiating a new Subscription object:

```C#
Subscription subscription = new Subscription()
{
    Name = "REPLACE_WITH_SUBSCRIPTION_NAME",
    Description = "This is a sample OCS Data Store Subscription",
    TopicId = createdTopic.Id,
    TopicTenantId = "REPLACE_WITH_TOPIC_TENANT_ID",
    TopicNamespaceId = "REPLACE_WITH_TOPIC_NAMESPACE_ID"
};
```

Then use the Ingress client to create the Subscription in OCS:

```C#
Subscription createdSubscription = await omfIngressService.CreateSubscriptionAsync(subscription);
```

## Send OMF Messages

OMF messages sent to OCS are translated into objects native to the Sequential Data Store. In this example, we send an OMF Type message which creates an SDS type in the data store, an OMF Container message which creates an SDS stream, and then send OMF Data messages, which use the containerId in the message body to route the data to the SDS stream. Refer to the data store documentation for how to view the types/streams/data in SDS. For each type of message, we first construct the message body using the OMF library:

```C#
OmfTypeMessage typeMessage = OmfMessageCreator.CreateTypeMessage(typeof(DataPointType));

OmfContainerMessage containerMessage = OmfMessageCreator.CreateContainerMessage(streamId, typeof(DataPointType));

DataPointType dataPoint = new DataPointType() { Timestamp = DateTime.UtcNow, Value = rand.NextDouble() };
OmfDataMessage dataMessage = OmfMessageCreator.CreateDataMessage(streamId, dataPoint);
```

Then the devices uses its own ingress client, which uses the device clientId and clientSecret to authenticate the requests. The device clientId is used to route the message to the Topic that the clientId is mapped to. Note that the message must be serialized before being sent.

```C#
var serializedMessage = OmfMessageSerializer.Serialize(omfMessage);
await deviceOmfIngressService.SendOMFMessageAsync(serializedMessage);
```

## Cleanup: Deleting Topics and Subscriptions

In order to prevent unused resources from being left behind, this sample performs some cleanup before exiting.

Deleting Containers and Types can be achieved by constructing the same OMF messages, but instead specifying the Delete action:

```C#
OmfTypeMessage typeMessage = OmfMessageCreator.CreateTypeMessage(typeof(DataPointType));
typeMessage.ActionType = ActionType.Delete;

OmfContainerMessage containerMessage = OmfMessageCreator.CreateContainerMessage(streamId, typeof(DataPointType));
containerMessage.ActionType = ActionType.Delete;
```

Then serialize the message and send as shown in the prior section.

Deleting Subscriptions and Topics can be achieved using the Ingress client and passing the corresponding object Ids:

```C#
await omfIngressService.DeleteSubscriptionAsync(createdSubscription.Id);
await omfIngressService.DeleteTopicAsync(createdTopic.Id);
```

## Steps to run this sample

Replace the placeholders in the `appsettings.json` file with your TenantId, NamespaceId, ClientId, ClientSecret, DeviceClientId, DeviceClientSecret, ConnectionName and the StreamId.

### Requirements

- .NET Core 2.1 or later
- Reliable internet connection

### Using Visual Studio

- Load the .csproj
- Rebuild project
- Run it

### Command Line

- Make sure you have the install location of dotnet added to your path
- Run the following command from the location of this project:

```shell
dotnet restore
dotnet run
```

- To run the tests, first make sure to change the current folder to the folder with OmfIngressClientLibrariesTests.csproj

```shell
dotnet restore
dotnet test
```

---

For the main OCS page [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS)  
For the main samples page on master [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples)
