docs/OTHER.md, before:

# ADH Other

These samples are samples that don't have a common theme. This is also the holding ground for the sample libraries.

## [UOM](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-uom-dotnet)

This sample highlights using the UOM system on ADH. Please see the [UOM](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-uom-dotnet) ReadMe for more information on this sample.

## [Namespace Data Copy](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-namespace_data_copy-python)

This sample highlights copying Data Views, Assets, and Streams from a source Namespace to a destination Namespace. Please see the [Namespace Data Copy](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-namespace_data_copy-python) ReadMe for more information on this sample.

## [Sample Libraries](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS/blob/main/docs/SAMPLE_LIBRARIES.md)

These sample libraries are used as the base for the other samples. They are designed to be straightforward implementations of the REST APIs. They are for use in the samples. Please see the [Sample Libraries](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS/blob/main/docs/SAMPLE_LIBRARIES.md) ReadMe for more information on the sample libraries.

## [Security Management](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-ocs-security_management-python)

This sample highlights security configuration within ADH. This includes creating a custom role, creating a user, inviting a user, setting Access Control Lists (ACLs) for collections, setting ACLs for collection items, setting an owner for a collection item, and retrieving access rights.

## [Stream Type Change](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-ocs-stream_type_change-python)

This sample highlights changing an ADH Stream's underlying SDS Type. The main purpose of this sample is to demonstrate the steps necessary to change the underlying SDS Type, and the secondary purpose is to provide an as-is utility to perform this Type change on PI Adapter v1.1 Streams after upgrading to v1.2.

## [PI to AVEVA Data Hub Transfer Verification Sample](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-pi_to_adh_transfer_verification-powershell)

This sample can be used to compare data stored in a PI Data Archive to data written to AVEVA Data Hub through the PI to Data Hub agent.  

## [Data Hub to PI](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-data_hub_to_pi-python)

This sample uses REST API calls to the Sequential Data Store of AVEVA Data Hub to collect Types, Streams, and data and create corresponding PI Tags in a Data Archive through OMF messages.  
<br/>
| Tasks  | Languages  | 
| ---- | --- |
| [UOM](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-uom-dotnet) | [.Net](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-uom-dotnet) | 
| [Namespace Data Copy](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-namespace_data_copy-python) | [Python](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-namespace_data_copy-python) | 
| [Sample Libraries](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS/blob/main/docs/SAMPLE_LIBRARIES.md) | [Java](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-sample_libraries-java) </br> [Python](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-sample_libraries-python) | 
| [Security Management](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-security_management-python) | [Python](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-security_management-python) |  
| [Stream Type Change](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-stream_type_change-python) | [Python](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-stream_type_change-python) | 
| [PI to AVEVA Data Hub Transfer Verification Sample](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-pi_to_adh_transfer_verification-powershell) | [PowerShell](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-pi_to_adh_transfer_verification-powershell) |
| [Data Hub to PI](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-data_hub_to_pi-python) | [Python](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-data_hub_to_pi-python) |

For the main ADH page [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS)  
For the main samples page [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples)

Commit message:

Renamed AVEVA Data Hub to CONNECT data services. Renamed ADH to CDS.

docs/OTHER.md, after:

# Cds Other

These samples are samples that don't have a common theme. This is also the holding ground for the sample libraries.

## [UOM](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-uom-dotnet)

This sample highlights using the UOM system on Cds. Please see the [UOM](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-uom-dotnet) ReadMe for more information on this sample.

## [Namespace Data Copy](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-namespace_data_copy-python)

This sample highlights copying Data Views, Assets, and Streams from a source Namespace to a destination Namespace. Please see the [Namespace Data Copy](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-namespace_data_copy-python) ReadMe for more information on this sample.

## [Sample Libraries](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS/blob/main/docs/SAMPLE_LIBRARIES.md)

These sample libraries are used as the base for the other samples. They are designed to be straightforward implementations of the REST APIs. They are for use in the samples. Please see the [Sample Libraries](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS/blob/main/docs/SAMPLE_LIBRARIES.md) ReadMe for more information on the sample libraries.

## [Security Management](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-ocs-security_management-python)

This sample highlights security configuration within Cds. This includes creating a custom role, creating a user, inviting a user, setting Access Control Lists (ACLs) for collections, setting ACLs for collection items, setting an owner for a collection item, and retrieving access rights.

## [Stream Type Change](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-ocs-stream_type_change-python)

This sample highlights changing an Cds Stream's underlying SDS Type. The main purpose of this sample is to demonstrate the steps necessary to change the underlying SDS Type, and the secondary purpose is to provide an as-is utility to perform this Type change on PI Adapter v1.1 Streams after upgrading to v1.2.

## [PI to CONNECT data services Transfer Verification Sample](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-pi_to_adh_transfer_verification-powershell)

This sample can be used to compare data stored in a PI Data Archive to data written to CONNECT data services through the PI to CONNECT data services agent.  

## [Data Hub to PI](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-data_hub_to_pi-python)

This sample uses REST API calls to the Sequential Data Store of CONNECT data services to collect Types, Streams, and data and create corresponding PI Tags in a Data Archive through OMF messages.  
<br/>
| Tasks  | Languages  | 
| ---- | --- |
| [UOM](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-uom-dotnet) | [.Net](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-uom-dotnet) | 
| [Namespace Data Copy](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-namespace_data_copy-python) | [Python](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-namespace_data_copy-python) | 
| [Sample Libraries](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS/blob/main/docs/SAMPLE_LIBRARIES.md) | [Java](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-sample_libraries-java) </br> [Python](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-sample_libraries-python) | 
| [Security Management](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-security_management-python) | [Python](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-security_management-python) |  
| [Stream Type Change](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-stream_type_change-python) | [Python](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-stream_type_change-python) | 
| [PI to CONNECT data services Transfer Verification Sample](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-pi_to_adh_transfer_verification-powershell) | [PowerShell](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-pi_to_adh_transfer_verification-powershell) |
| [CONNECT data services to PI](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-data_hub_to_pi-python) | [Python](https://github.com/osisoft/sample-adh-data_hub_to_pi-python) |

For the main Cds page [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples-OCS)  
For the main samples page [ReadMe](https://github.com/osisoft/OSI-Samples)
